1- Describe Open Source Software
Computer code that any user is permitted to view, copy, and modify for any reason, as well as distribute to anyone.

2- Give an example of OSS
   The Linux Kernel is OSS

3- what is the Term that covers both movements. (Free Software & OSS)
   FOSS (Free and Open Source Software)

4- How does Richard Stallman describle the difference between the two movements.
   According to Richard Stallman "Open Source is a development methodology, free software 
   is a social movement

5- What is the GNU Project
   A free software project led by Richard Stallman

6- What is the UNIX Philosophy
   The UNIX philosophy is set of best practices and approaches to software development.

7- Who developed the Linux Kernel
   Linus Torvalds in 1991
   Linux is the first OS to qualify as FOSS and it follows the Unix principles of simplicity and Modularity

8- List three advantages and three disadvantages of using Linux
   Advantages
   -----------
 -  FOSS Nature promotes transparency
 -  High customizable
 -  Most distributions are free of monetary cost. 

   Disadvantages:
   -------------
 - Sharper Learning curve
 - No official version so might confuse new users  (www.distrowatch.com)
 - No Official support for the most part

9- List 4 linux distributions
  - Centos
  - Fedora
  -  Opensuse
  - SLES
  -  Red Hat
www.distrowatch.com
   
10-  True or False. The Linux design emphasizes Simplicity & Modularity.


11- True or False. Linux is case sensitive.

12- List three advantages of the CLI (Command Line Interface)
    - Faster for system to process
    - faster for admins to enter info
    - Commands can be stored as scripts to run a series of tasks.

13- List two challenges of the CLI
    - More difficult to learn than GUI
    - Commands have many options and are not always consistent.

14- What is a Shell and list 4 types of Shells
   A system component that permits users to pass commands and information to the kernel.
   Four Types of Shells are:
   	Bourne shell
	Bash
	C shell
	KornShell

15- Show an example of a command with an option and an argument.
    ls -ltr /usr


16- Name three editors in Linux
    vim
    nano
    gedit


17- As a normal user, how do you switch to root
   su - 
   su - root
   

18- List 5 ways to get help on commands in linux without referencing external documentation like google
    man
    apropos 
    whatis
    info
    --help
    /usr/share/doc


19- What is the website to the Linux Documentation Project?
    tldp.org

20- what is the difference between the cp and the mv commands?
   cp command makes a copy of the original file or directory
   mv command moves or renames the original file or directory
