1- When the first thing that runs when a computer with BIOS is started? 
   the BIOS firmware is the first to run; this enables it to test the various
   hardware components in a computer, as well as run a boot loader 
  so that an operating system can start. 


2- What is a boot loader? 
A boot loader is the small program stored in ROM that loads the kernel from a storage
device, and then starts the operating system. A boot environment like BIOS reads the
boot loader from ROM so that the boot loader can execute the necessary operations to
start the process

3- Can the boot loader be configured to load 
   a windows 10 and Centos operating systems?
Yes,  boot loaders can load more than one
operating system into the computer's memory, but the user needs to select the
desired operating system to use during boot.


4- What are the main components of the boot loader that load the
   operating system in stages?
a- Boot sector program:
	The first component of the boot loader. It is loaded by
	a boot environment on startup and has a fixed size of
	512 bytes. Its main function is to load the second stage
	boot loader; however, it can also load another sector
	or a kernel.
b- Second stage boot loader:
	Loads the operating system and contains a kernel loader.

c- Boot loader installer:
	 Controls the installation of drive sectors and can be
	run only when booting from a drive. It coordinates the
	activities of the boot sector and the boot loader
  

5- What is the name of the firware technology that replace  the BIOS?
  UEFI (Unified Extensible Firware Interface)

6- List three advantages the UEFI firmware has over the BIOS firmware Technology?
   a- UEFI runs faster than BIOS.
   b- Can operate within a greater amount of memory.
   c- Can access storage drives of currently unattainable sizes.

7- List Four other boot environments that Linux can boot from other then
   the usual BIOS and UEFIi harddisk ?
a- Boot from ISO:
	An ISO image is a system image, originally that of an optical
	disc. Today, it is commonly used as a file format for
	packaging and distributing images of operating systems that
	users can boot from, as well as use to install the OS.
	Typically, you'd write the ISO image to an optical disc or USB
	thumb drive, then insert the media into the computer and
	instruct a boot environment like UEFI to boot from that
	media. ISOs are also commonly used to construct virtual
	machines.
b- PXE Preboot Execution Environment:
	(PXE) is a part of the UEFI
	standard that enables a client to retrieve the necessary boot
	loader and system files from a server over the network. The
	client configures UEFI to boot from PXE, and during the
	startup process, it will search for Dynamic Host
	Configuration Protocol (DHCP) servers that also act as PXE
	servers. Once the proper server is found, the server
	transfers the necessary boot files to the client over the
	Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP).


c- Boot from HTTP/FTP:
	Clients can also acquire boot data over a network from
	content delivery protocols like Hypertext Transfer Protocol
	(HTTP) and File Transfer Protocol (FTP). These are typically
	faster, more reliable, and more secure than the standard
	TFTP protocol used in PXE. Open source implementations of
	PXE, like iPXE, extend PXE support to include these
	protocols.


d- Boot from NFS:
	This is another network boot option. Rather than store
	system files on a local storage drive, a client will mount an
	NFS share as its root file system. The share must be
	prepared ahead of time and stored on an NFS server that
	the client can retrieve the files from. Therefore, the client
	does not store data locally, but on the NFS server. DHCP,
	TFTP, and other network protocols can be used to
	communicate the necessary boot data in such an
	environment.


8- What is a sector?
	A sector is the smallest unit of storage read from or written to a drive. 
	A sector stores 512 bytes of data by default. 
	On hard disk drives, a collection of sectors is called a
	track. The number of sectors in a track may vary, 
        and so does their capacity to hold data
	The size of a sector can be altered when formatting the drive.


9- What does the MBR sector contain?
	The MBR contains the boot loader that loads the operating system into memory.
	It also contains the partition table of the storage drive. 
	The MBR determines what sectors are available to each partition, 
	as well as which partition is considered bootable and 
        which partitions are not.


10- List three benefits the GUID Partition Table (GPT) has over the MBR?
    a- MBR can have a maximum of 4 Primary partitions. GPT doesn't
    b- GPT also has the advantage of storing its boot data in multiple 
       locations on a drive to enhance redundancy. If the primary location 
       is corrupted, GPT can leverage one of the other copies 
       to restore the boot data.
   c- GPT does not have the TWO terabyte limitation for disks that MPR has


11- What systems normally use Raw Partitioning?
   Raw Partitioning is useful in situations where software like 
   a database management system (DBMS) has its own caching mechanism. 
   The DBMS has greater control over I/O caching in a raw partition and can
   bypass the caching normally done by the kernel.
Note: Be very careful with disks that may look free. They might be in use by 
      a DBMS database like Oracle's ASM

http://blog.solvaria.com/the-sys-admin-ate-my-database

12-What is the importance of the initrd phase of the boot process?
The initrd enables the system to be started in two phases. 
In the first phase, the system is booted with the minimal set of 
modules required to load the main, or permanent, root file system. 
In the second phase, when the main root file system is mounted, 
the previously mounted initrd file system is removed and the 
user space boot process continues.
Bonus:
The initrd is useful because there are many potential 
variables that can complicate the boot process. 
For example, the kernel needs to find and load the necessary device
driver modules, as well as the actual root file system itself. 
There's also the possibility that the root file system uses one of several advanced 
storage methods, like LVM or NFS, which have different mount requirements 
than a standard partition. Rather than hardcode all of this behavior in the kernel 
and introduce bloat, the initrd's temporary root file system can handle these tasks.


13- List the Boot process steps:
a- Processor checks for BIOS/UEFI firmware.
b- BIOS/UEFI checks for bootable media.
c- BIOS/UEFI loads primary boot loader from MBR/GPT partition into memory.
d- User is prompted to select system to boot; default is booted if no response.
e- Boot loader loads initrd image into memory and transfers control to kernel.
f- Kernel configures hardware drivers, decompresses initrd, and mounts it.
g- Kernel mounts main root partition and executes systemd program.
h- The system program checks the target and starts various services.
i- If graphical mode is selected, a display manager is started.
j- User enters credentials.
k- System authenticates user and executes profile files.
l- Shell is started and system is ready for use.

14- List 4 reasons a kernel panic can take place
	a- Kernel is corrupt
	b- systemd program was not executed on boot.
	c- Kernel cannot find/mount root file system.
	d- Malfunctioning/incompatible hardware loaded on boot.



15- List the improvements of GRUB2 over the legacy GRUB
a- Support for non-x86 platforms.
b- Support for live booting.
c- Support for partition UUIDs.
d- Support for dynamically loading modules.
e- Ability to configure boot loader through scripts.
f- Rescue mode.
g- Support for custom menus and themes.

16- How to identify if your system is running on UEFI or BIOS
	The easiest way to find out if you are running UEFI or BIOS is to 
	look for a folder /sys/firmware/efi. 
	The folder will be missing if your system is using BIOS.  
  or 
       yum install efibootmgr 
      then run the command efibootmgr
    
 https://itsfoss.com/check-uefi-or-bios/ 
https://www.linuxbabe.com/command-line/how-to-use-linux-efibootmgr-examples

