Note:
for Step 1 and Step 2, You can use a Template instead of installing a new machine.


1- Install a Centos 7 server. Call it test
2- Make sure to have a seperate partition for /var and /home while installing

3- after installation, add Two disk (2G each).
   - Create a logical volume (applv) (must create PVs and VG first)
4- create a xfs filesystem on the LV and mount it on /shared

5- Create two groups sales and mkt

6- Create 5 users
   (jill, joe and john)  ... members of mkt
   (sam, susan)          ... members of sales



7- Change user sam's shell to ksh
 

8- change /shared directory group to mkt

   
9- Make sure the files created in /shared take to group of the 
   directory, not that of the owner of the file


10- Install Apache webserver on your new server
   10a- Create few files in the webserver DocumentRoot which is /var/www/html
   10b- Create a index file in that Same directory. (index.html)
   10c- Edit the index.html file and write mini project in it.
 
11- Make sure the webserver is using port 8080 instead of port 80
    Hint: You do this by editing the webserver config file and restarting the webserver.

12- Make sure that port 8080 is allowed through the firewall
    Hint: firewall-cmd 

13- Tar up the files in DocumentRoot of the webserver (/var/www/html).

    

14- Ensure the user susan has has rwx on the /shared directory
    Remember that Susan is neither the owner, nor a member of the group mkt
    
15- The Sales department decided that they want the user susan 
    to access /shared directory as /Sales 

16- Prevent e1000 kernel module from being automatically loaded at system boot time



17-   install the stress package and put some load on the system 
sudo yum install stress 
   sudo stress --cpu 8 --io 4 --vm 2 --vm-bytes 128 --timeout 100s
   On another terminal run the command "top" to observe the load on the machine.
   also, display the top 8 CPU consuming processes and kill them.
  

18- Ensure the timezone of your server is set that of Tokyo Japan

19- Install the Mate Desktop on your server and make sure that Server comes 
    up with GUI after a reboot
 

20-  Add another interface on your Machine and put a static IP on it.
     use the VirtualBOX Manager for adding the interface. 


21- What device driver is your Network interface using?

22- Copy the file /etc/hosts from your local machine to the atlanta server's /tmp/ directory
    Make sure you name the copied file as hosts.<YOURNAME>
Atlanata server IP address is: 45.32.212.147
  


23- Look for any syslog kernel messages for log level error and higher

24- Make sure the system comes up NON GUI after a reboot even if GUI is installed

Optional:
25- We finally decided to prepare this server for Oracle DB installation.
But before we do that, the System Engineer will have to install
Oracle's ASM filesystem so that the DBA can use ASM type filesytem.
